ARP SPOOFING DETECTION AND PREVENTION LAB
Objective
This project demonstrates the implementation and analysis of ARP spoofing attacks using Bettercap on Kali Linux. By simulating Man-in-the-Middle (MITM) attacks in a controlled environment, the project explores network vulnerabilities, attack vectors, and defensive countermeasures. The lab provides hands-on experience with network security concepts, packet manipulation, and traffic analysis to better understand how to detect and prevent these common network attacks.
Skills Learned

Network protocol analysis and exploitation techniques
Implementation of ARP spoofing attacks using modern penetration testing tools
Traffic interception and packet analysis
Understanding of network security vulnerabilities and attack vectors
Development of effective detection and prevention strategies
Ethical hacking methodology and responsible disclosure practices
Network forensics and incident response techniques

Tools Used

Kali Linux as the attack platform
Bettercap for ARP spoofing and network manipulation
Wireshark for packet capture and analysis
tcpdump for command-line packet analysis
arpwatch for ARP spoofing detection
Virtual machines for creating isolated testing environments
Static ARP configuration for implementing prevention measures
Custom scripts for automating detection and monitoring

Steps
1. Lab Environment Setup
Created a secure, isolated lab environment using virtual machines to ensure all testing remained contained and ethical. The network topology included attacker (Kali Linux), victim, and target machines to simulate real-world attack scenarios.
2. Installing and Configuring Bettercap
Installed Bettercap on Kali Linux and configured it for ARP spoofing attacks. Explored the Bettercap web UI and command-line interface to understand available modules and attack options.
Copysudo apt update
sudo apt install bettercap
sudo bettercap -eval "help"
3. Network Reconnaissance
Performed initial reconnaissance to identify potential targets on the network. Used Bettercap's built-in discovery capabilities to map the network topology and identify active hosts.
Copysudo bettercap -eval "net.probe on; net.show"
4. Executing the ARP Spoofing Attack
Implemented ARP spoofing attacks to position the attacking machine between target devices, redirecting traffic through the attacker's system.
Copysudo bettercap -eval "set arp.spoof.targets 192.168.1.5; arp.spoof on; net.sniff on"
5. Traffic Capture and Analysis
Captured and analyzed network traffic using Wireshark and Bettercap's sniffing capabilities. Identified sensitive information being transmitted over unencrypted protocols.
6. Credential Harvesting Demonstration
Demonstrated how ARP spoofing can be used to harvest credentials from unencrypted web sessions and other network services.
Copysudo bettercap -eval "set http.proxy.sslstrip true; http.proxy on"
7. Attack Detection
Implemented and tested various detection methods for identifying ARP spoofing attacks:

Configured arpwatch to monitor for suspicious ARP activity
Analyzed network traffic patterns indicative of ARP spoofing
Developed custom scripts to alert on potential ARP table modifications

8. Prevention Techniques Implementation
Tested various prevention techniques including:

Static ARP entries for critical network devices
Implementation of DHCP snooping and Dynamic ARP Inspection
Network segmentation strategies
Encrypted protocols for sensitive communications

9. Documentation and Reporting
Created comprehensive documentation of the attack methodology, detection techniques, and prevention strategies. Developed a reporting template for communicating network vulnerabilities in professional settings.
10. Ethical Considerations and Responsible Disclosure
Researched and documented ethical considerations when performing security testing, including proper scoping, authorization, and responsible disclosure protocols.
